hi everyone laszlo Montgomery again
another China history podcast our second
in a series covering the history of Hong
Kong today we're going to get into all
the interesting things going on around
South China that later culminated in the
Opium War or the first anglo-chinese war
everything I mentioned in the last
episode well that part of Hong Kong's
history has sort of been shunted aside
for the part that will begin looking at
today I mentioned in the last episode
the history or at least Hong Kong's
historical association with China went
all the way back to the Qin Dynasty and
at least we know for certain for
absolute certain that there were Chinese
officials coming all the way down to
Hong Kong since at least the Han Dynasty
due to the tomb that was unearthed in
cheung sha wan back in 1955 hong kong
wasn't any place of significance yet
back then and i guess all the way up to
the opium war hong kong was simply
another local place of no particular
political consequence or worthwhile
economy it was merely part of some
county reporting to someone who reported
to someone you know up the chain of
command so today let's just look at the
whole lead-up we'll look at all the
names of those who had top billing in
this major theatrical and historic event
will also look at the events that led up
to the convention of trend be and then
next time in part three we'll see what
happens with the treaty of Nanjing this
is the watershed event where most
historians say the history or the real
history of Hong Kong began going way
back Hong Kong residents including the
five boom de clans remember there were
five clans or the original hongkongers
everyone got caught up in the two
hye-jin these were bands on foreign sea
trade that were sort of implemented by
executive order from the Emperor the
first came in 1371 called for by the
Ming Dynasty founder julian cheung the
home will Emperor this later was
rescinded and then you know beginning in
1405 he had the whole Jung
seven voyages that followed soon after
the Home Rule emperor's death the second
ban on foreign trade and the more
serious of the two for Hong Kong people
came in 1647 this one was called for by
the Kangxi Emperor it was his way to
deal with the havoc that Jung Chung Gong
was causing all up and down the
southeast China coast Jung Chung gone
aka zynga was one of the great
heroes in the history of Taiwan I'm not
going to get into it here but during the
Ching he was a major pain to the
government both in Fujian province and
in Beijing when we start our history of
Taiwan series we'll take a closer look
at Jung Chung Hong Kong she and His
infinite wisdom called for a sea trade
ban and then called for this great
Clarence in 1655 if he could picture
this everyone and I mean everyone even
those down in Hong Kong had to pick up
and get out and evacuate the coastal
areas and if you didn't obey you got
beheaded net alone induced everyone to
comply with this new Imperial edict
people had to move about 50 Lee or 15 20
miles inland and if you had a boat or
any kind of seafaring vessel you had to
burn it this one until 1684 when can she
reopened trade when it was all over and
people and all those who lived along the
coast and who had settled in Hong Kong
lived through this period when they went
back to their homes after you know 20 30
years of typhoons and number 8 signals
the place was just wrecked and people
had to start all over and this very
strict and draconian ban on sailing on
vessels of any kind as you can imagine
put a major crimp in the fishing
business so today let's just fast
forward to the Ching dynasty this is
where it all began as far as when Hong
Kong went from being this spear slee
settled land with an economy that relied
on fishing pearls and saw
to one of the great centers of China
trade with the West this was the time of
these incredible merchant adventurers
and the founding of the legendary firms
like Jardine Matheson Swire dent russell
augustine heard Howland aspinwall
Wheelock Mardan and many many others but
it's Jardine and Matheson that I want to
talk about first today because these
were the two chaps who joined together
in 1827 to get the ball rolling in the
1830s there's is quite the interesting
story many of you are probably familiar
with the company they started James
Clavell wrote a couple novels called
Taipan and noble house that were loosely
modeled on Jardine Matheson and company
so today let's sort of use William
Jardine as one of the cornerstones to
tell today's story last episode we
mentioned jorge alvarez he was part of
an early contingent of portuguese were
scouting around the area in and around
hong kong the portuguese were the first
Westerners to get a look-see at the
economic opportunities available out
this way they're trading vessels were
not only packed with provisions and
cargo but always with any number of
Jesuits looking to see what harvest they
could reap out in these faraway lands so
sixteenth and seventeenth century we
recall the great work of the Jesuits I
mention ricci solve on bail and very
beast in a previous episode that was
number 98 there were others who followed
and then as soon as the scent of blood
got in the water as far as the riches of
cafe sitting there waiting to be had all
the other sharks started heading in that
direction there came the Dutch the
English and the French who mostly stayed
down in Vietnam for the time being when
comes she put an end to the hygiene in
1684 it's not like he welcomed the
foreigners back China was still closed
for business and trade was restricted to
Canton and Macau the British meanwhile
we're making a ton of money in India and
getting that place all set up that was
the springboard to China
it was the success in carrying out
commerce in India since the battle of
plassey and 1757 and the men of steel
who grew out of that world that
facilitated the whole opium war and
everything that would later follow with
Hong Kong so here was the problem it was
called the Canton system it had been
developed between 1685 and 1752 western
traders made some efforts to do some
direct trade with China Vietnam aw and
shaman but if you wanted to do business
with China beginning around 1757 you had
to work within this Canton system it was
corrupt arbitrary and quite an
inefficient monopoly that she and loan
Emperor was the first to command that
all foreign trade had to go through this
Canton system despite all the drawbacks
though it was still a most profitable
business for these foreign traders but
the whole system was skewed in favor of
the co huong or in Mandarin the gong
hang these were the 13 Chinese merchants
Hong's I don't know how much money they
had to pay to get this concession but
being a member of the co hong was if you
played your cards right like a diamond
mine on top of a gold mine 13 of these
merchants maybe some of them you
remember the more familiar guys who ran
these Hong as well the most notable of
them was how qua known in Chinese as
whooping Jim houck was particular Hong
was called the Yi wall-hung or in
Mandarin a ye kahan when William Jardine
later had to choose a Chinese name for
his Jardine Matheson company he adopted
how quas venerable company name well
these 13 Co Hong merchants they had a
lock on all official China trade there
was a lot of smuggling going on all over
the place these would these were the
days late 18th early 19th century that
you know all those legendary days of
smuggling we're going on there's
countless stories of these smugglers in
their exploits during the 1820s and 30s
that are locked away and Diaries
letters and all kinds of obscure books
we remember the big names though and
their daring exploits the United States
still a brand new country and all the
Brits locked them out of all the decent
Atlantic trade so off to China the
Americans went to seek out any and all
trade opportunities this whole thing you
the early Americans in China that's a
future CHP topic they competed neck and
neck with the British for any business
they could get their hands on they
smuggled opium and other goods as much
as the next European but all the
official trade which by far was the
lion's share had to go through how quoi
and his 12 other members of this hated
Canton system the 13 members of the co
hong they reported to the hop oh or the
hubble the hop oh he was responsible for
managing all the trade dealing with an
unending string of incidents and
complaints and most important collecting
all the duties and anything he could
squeeze out of the foreigners he served
in his capacity as ha PO for only three
years it said this position was so
lucrative vast vast sums of money were
paid in bribes to the Imperial
Government to secure it and it took two
years of collecting duties and profits
and shaking down the foreigners just to
pay back the officials who were
responsible for the hypos good fortune
so it was only in the third year that he
made his own profit and being at the
center of one of the world's great
trading monopolies at the time it was
quite a profit this is more or less the
crux of the problem it was a clash of
cultures the Chinese decision makers at
the time really didn't have a clue about
what was coming no one seemed scared of
these foreigners the Chinese couldn't
have been more oblivious to the changes
going on in Europe as a whole in the
eighteenth and nineteenth centuries
after so many thousand years the Chinese
were so sure of their superiority and
their entire manner of d
with the foreigners was carried out and
this way that just infuriated the
British who themselves were so certain
of their own cultural economic and
political superiority and the fact that
the British were clamouring like crazy
to buy all these commodities and
finished manufactured goods from China
gave these Chinese merchants more than
just the upper hand in their little
commercial trading world the Chinese
side acted like little more than a
dictator they weren't trying to buy
anything from Englander any of the
European nations sure there were some
things that you know Chinese bought but
there was simply nothing Britain could
provide that would give some semblance
of a trade bell and seeing like China
head with t-t had long been embraced by
the swells of Britain now by the working
class folk to this was not a small
market but once things got nice and
solid in India for the British they
acquired a little more confidence and
although the horrific Canton system
would do for the time being the most
astute and daring of the British traders
knew they were determined to scrape this
hated Canton system off the bottom of
their shoe and set up their own base in
the pearl river delta region in order to
get what they wanted and if it meant
going to war with China they would find
some way to do it these budding
companies crammed into these so-called
factories in Canton just outside the
city walls these were the only places
open to the foreigners and when I say
foreigners I mean foreign men no Western
women were allowed in any shape or form
this is where they ate slept transacted
business and stored their goods no
firearms were allowed and no foreign
vessel was allowed to pass the Bogue the
boat was the name of that narrow channel
where the Pearl River dumps out into the
South China Sea this is right near the
town of Holman and the way the system
worked there was a five-month trading
season once the season ended the Chinese
demanded these foreigners withdraw from
Canton
get out of town they either headed to
portuguese macau not the friendliest
place for the british or they sale to
India or just back home to England but
they had to evacuate canton another
problem was that since there was no
official government-to-government
relations between China and Britain or
the US all the diplomacy if you want to
call it that was commercial in nature
and these merchants were hardly suited
to be skilled diplomats they were a
rowdy bunch were only interested in
making money and trying to get around
any kind of restriction or regulation
that got in the way of themselves and
making a huge profit off their trading
endeavors well backed up by all the
benefits yielded so far by the
Industrial Revolution Britain was in a
unique position in the 1830s to be able
to project military power from a great
distance whether they would be able to
project such power from London all the
way to Guangzhou and Beyond remain to be
seen they had made fast work of Napoleon
they seem to have India under control
now they were itching to test the mettle
of the Ching dynasty Emperor and his
military might let's sort of pick up
right after the end of the East India
Company after they lost their monopoly
in 1834 and when out of financial
necessity the east india company began
selling licenses to smaller traders this
is when things were totally up for grabs
during this transitional period of post
EIC deregulation and rewriting of the
laws anybody could basically do anything
you had no holds barred trading and
smuggling in the South China Sea they
couldn't have been happier after the EIC
lost their monopoly now with those guys
out of the way the only thing
prohibiting the kind of trade they were
aiming for were the Chinese themselves
the merchant Prince's like Jardine
Matheson dent Russell all began scheming
how to get around the shine authorities
as well they had one
single aim to bus china wide open and
freely trade throughout the country by
now in the 1830s the customs revenue
that the British crown was collecting
from the China traders was between
fifteen to twenty percent of everything
the Exchequer took in these traders were
critical to the country's annual
financial state and of that eight
percent of the revenue came from the one
thing the British finally found that
China wanted this of course was that
excellent top-quality opium that came
out of British India Bengal introducing
opium on a mass scale had been the big
game-changer for the region opium during
the early Ching period was a pleasure
enjoyed only by the rich but once prices
came down to the level where the man on
the street could afford it and that's
when it became a menace to society prior
to exporting all this opium from India
all this tea and silk was paid for in
silver but once the British introduced
opium it gave them a favorable trade
balance in fact it did better than that
it through things way out of whack in
China and the tables were turned now the
Chinese were paying silver for the opium
just like the British had been forced to
do with tea and silk for all those years
to sort of get the ball rolling july
25th 1834 lord napier arrived in canton
after a long voyage from england for
lack of any other suitable candidate it
was Napier who was given the title of
first superintendent of trade this
position had been created to fill the
void left by the East India Company who
had always you know sort of ran things
but now as I said they were no longer a
force to be reckoned with although he
was instructed before he left England
not to do anything rash with the Chinese
and not to provoke any incidents Napier
had written in his diary quote
the Empire of China is my own what a
glorious thing it would be to have a
blockading squadron on the coast of the
celestial Empire how easily a gun
brigade would raise a revolution and
cause them to open their ports to the
trading world I should like to be the
medium of such a change so with this
hidden agenda in mind even before he got
there lord napier charged in like a bull
in a china shop intent on teaching these
chinese a lesson and you know what
happens when you do that essentially
lord napier got nowhere he broke every
established unwritten rule that these
traders had learned over the years how
to deal with the local officials lord
napier figured he was british they were
all powerful and rising to the top of
the world political food chain and by
god these china officials better get in
line or else well this napier mission it
started off bad got worse and then it
deteriorated from there and when the
chinese began you know playing with lord
napier using the characters to write
Lord Napier's name and Chinese and the
official documents you passed back and
forth you know that when you translated
these characters it meant you know it
means something terribly offensive you
know lord napier just saw red and he ver
upon initiated his own insults and keep
them upon his counterparts you know
these local officials in Canton things
continue to go downhill from there and
in short order the whole Napier mission
broke down and after two failed months
of going nowhere lord napier called in a
couple of frigates that he had tucked
away not too far from canton and had
them sail up the pearl river to the
Bogue to show these chinese he meant
business but this provocation didn't
faze the chinese forces and after an
exchange of gunfire between chinese
troops based in the forts along the
river and the two vessels that lord
napier had called in it all went south
from there for lord napier and his
ill-fated mission
to exacerbate matters for himself
personally lord napier had contacted
malaria slowly dying this was August
September in the muggy hot unbearable
summer that the whole Pearl River Delta
was famous for and you know how these
guys all dressed back then so coming
straight from London like he did the
fact that lord napier wilted so fast
isn't so surprising the chinese blocked
the port and slowed the british down
while lord napier languished on board
all his fights drained from him as the
malaria slowly killed him after a couple
of weeks this diplomatic standoff the
British vessels were allowed to sail him
lord napier gave orders to head to macau
and there he died shortly after making
landfall on october eleventh 1834 napier
had written to the foreign secretary
Lord Palmerston quote three or four
frigates and Briggs with a few steady
British troops would settle the thing in
a space of time in conceivably short
such an undertaking would be worthy of
the greatness and power of England well
now with the humiliating demise of lord
napier the british had a casus belli the
question in England was whether or not
to use this incident to go to war and
blast china open in order to create a
full-blown system of trade not to
mention a new massive potential market
for british goods William Jardine had
sailed back to England and he used every
single ounce of his considerable
persuasive powers to bend the air of the
politicians that he kept in his back
pocket his objective was to go to war
with China and sees a base of operations
from which full unfettered trade could
be carried out without any of the
craziness of the Canton system to get in
the way this is where the idea of Hong
Kong came about is the 1830s unfolded
and all these foreign traders were
scheming how in the heck to get around
these Co Hong merchants in Canton it
became a period of intense meetings in
the Forbidden City with the Thule Quang
Emperor and his closest advisors
different factions called for different
actions to take against the foreigners
the argument was well who's similar to
today's argument regarding the American
war on drugs should we just legalize it
and regulate drugs or use brute force to
stamp out the whole trade and go after
users and dealers one faction was
strongly calling for the Emperor to
legalize the opium trade and in so doing
vast fortunes could be earned for the
Treasury well we've heard that argument
before here in sunny California with the
marijuana business another faction and
these were the guys who won out in the
end called for the Emperor to outlaw the
drug trade and round up all the users
one of the spokesman for this faction
was lynnze shoe you remember him from
the opium war episode he's a great hero
in China mainly for having the cojones
to stand up to the foreigners one of the
main points of contention was whether
they needed a base that they could call
their own or not I mean the ultimate
objective was simply to get rid of the
Canton system and to enjoy free trade
throughout China no one was dead set on
acquiring any land I mean that really
meant a whole new set of headaches for
the British government you know they
weren't too keen on taking that on lord
napier he had his sights set on hong
kong you know until he met his premature
demise the idea of a permanent British
base of operations situated on some
offshore island but within close
proximity to China was bandied about
they were all in agreement the current
system and Canton had become too
unbearable that had to go all were in
agreement on this point after taking
stock of the whole situation the general
feeling was that the only way Britain
was going to get what it wanted
was by force this meant some sort of
naval operation needed to be carried out
the British obtained sovereignty over
singapore in 1824 and already a decade
later the benefits to having this kind
of base of operations were immediately
felt and at this base near Canton had a
British flag flying over the government
house all the better the traders could
speak with the entirety of the British
government backing them up rather than
simply some superintendent of trade was
toothless when it came to enforcing
anything or speaking out on behalf of
the traders you know how the British
were with their insistence on law and
order laws which regulate a trade and
made it free and fair could only be
enforced with the might of the British
Empire behind it therefore they needed
an island of some sort to plant the flag
and make it official in 1838 the dowel
Guang Emperor empowered lyndz's you to
go down to the south and force these
foreigners to get with the program and
as the well-known story goes linces she
went down to Guangdong province arriving
March 10th 1839 and on march 18th he
gave an order to all foreigners everyone
they all decide this opium bond which in
so many words made the signatory swear
never to deal in the opium business
again in China plus they had a hand over
all their stocks of opium to be
destroyed and to show he meant business
Lin's issue had everyone placed under
that kind of house arrest for two months
everyone was confined to can't I'm the
one in charge back then was Captain
Charles Elliott RN who was first
superintendent of British trade he had
served under lord napier previously and
from his perch in macau Elliott took
stock of the situation and told the
British merchants to do was the Chinese
say and that you know whatever losses
there were the British crown would you
know back them up with whatever losses
the traders incurred
this amounted to two two and a half
million pounds sterling of which Her
Majesty's Government later only Pony DUP
1 million two hundred and eighty-one
thousand 211 pounds captain Elliott did
this under duress because well to have
argued with Lindsey shoe at a time when
Lynn had the home-field advantage you
know so to speak would have been
suicidal so 20,000 291 chests of opium
were handed over and lynnze shoe at his
big bake sale in Holmen where all this
opium was destroyed with this taken care
of Lindsay's shoe allowed the British to
leave and then they hightailed it to
Macao to regroup and come up with a plan
Linton continued to keep up the pressure
and used his influence to exert pressure
on the British that were holed up in
Macau this was simple because Macau
survived you know on a day to day basis
you know just with supplies that were
you know handed to them by the Chinese
you know if any monkey business going
out in Macau all of a sudden you'd find
ooh no water no food stuffs or you know
whatever daily necessities so the
British were hounded in Macau as well
the British were making the Portuguese
look bad and you know those guys the
Portuguese had no dog in this fight so
captain Elliott and the rest of the
British they had to get out and they
sailed to Hong Kong tracing the routes
that today are traversed dozens of times
daily by jet foils and hydrofoils
varying gamblers back and forth between
these two places Hong Kong and Macau he
dropped anchor in Hong Kong harbor and
planned his next move they docked in
Kowloon and several of the British
sailors they set out for a little fun
and adventure much the same as many
other a naval or merchant sailor is done
for over 200 years since they went
ashore and they got all liquored up in
Jim saw joy and wouldn't you know at one
of the sailors shot and killed a local
mr. lean way high and then all hell
broke loose linzess you wanted
reparations and for the offender
whoever he was to be handed over for
some quick justice Chinese stud well
with no rule book to go manage the
resolution of the incident Elliott tried
his best to handle this Kowloon incident
of July seventh 1839 Ringo's birthday
the Chinese attacked the British vessels
using the old tried-and-true method of
fire boats you know a trick that was
used most effectively by Leo Bay and you
know against Alto at the Battle of
chirpy so with this act open warfare had
begun so the debate went on in London
about how to deal with matters at hand
and Canton Jardine and the other
merchant Prince's all worked hard to
lobby their MPs to do something to
ameliorate the whole trading system the
present system was totally unacceptable
in a way highly insulting to the high
esteem that the British held themselves
this was hotly debated and there was a
lot of vociferous opposition to the
opium trade especially by the religious
community however thanks to all the
heavy handedness and terror meted out
against so many missionaries the
opposition of the religious community
against open hostilities against China
were somewhat muted William Jardine and
the other merchants in Canton all
petitioned the government in London and
argued that had lord napier had some
firepower to back him up he wouldn't
have gone down in flames like he did
they requested someone come out who
carried plenipotentiary powers someone
that walked loudly and carried a big
stick and who could walk in and demand
reparations for the losses incurred when
Lin says you destroyed the opium for the
rest of the 1830s this whole matter of
how to handle this matter of China trade
was very hotly debated in parliament
lines' shoes justifiable actions taken
against the British were all that
Jardine and the other merchants needed
it was a gift from the gods
now they were able to easily go to their
MPs and to the Foreign Secretary Lord
Palmerston and say you know CCC look
what they done now we kind of take
action Lord Palmerston fired off a
diplomatic letter to the Emperor in so
many words said that you know the
present arrangement is no longer
acceptable to the British side and they
you know they wanted some small
insignificant island somewhere close by
of which there were hundreds to choose
from we're british subjects could carry
out their trade unmolested and free from
the potential violence that had just
recently happened now again the
cessation of an island was negotiable
after all the objective was free trade
not to seize land from China Elliot's
and his cousin rear admiral george
eliot's were made plenipotentiaries and
they went in and did their thing jun 18
40 they sailed out of macau first they
blockaded canteen and then they
blockaded the port of Joel Sean off the
coast of ningbo they weren't there to
fight a war they simply wanted to show
they meant business and to deliver a
copy of palmerson's letter to the local
authorities who would you know send it
up the chain of command to the Emperor
in theory with the British getting too
close for comfort the Chinese sent in
their negotiator to sit down and discuss
matters and cam time so they went back
down south and assembled and cam time to
hash things out this was around August
1840 captain Elliott was now the sole
planet potenti ery in charge of the
negotiations to say they were torturous
was an understatement Elliott new in 10
seconds flat that he was just spinning
his wheels trying to negotiate equitable
terms by January 1841 everything had
just fallen apart and this is when
things got serious captain Elliott led
his small body of troops to seize and
occupy the Chinese forts along the Bogue
near Holman and once this was
successfully carried out the Chinese
huddled together and if they're weighing
all their options
resign themselves to the inevitable this
whole diplomatic mess was ultimately
mopped up and the British were allowed
to keep trading from can't on as long as
they didn't deal in opium those who
refused they couldn't trade well Elliot
did his best to enforce the ban yeah
actually he himself was not a supporter
of the opium trade and found it as
odious as the next reasonable man Elliot
was the one who negotiated the treaty
called the convention of Chen be or the
tron beats halia of january twentieth
1841 this is the deal where the British
got Hong Kong in theory the document was
simple in what it stated which was Oh
point one the cessation of the island
and harbor of Hong Kong to the British
crown all just charges and duties to the
Empire upon the Commerce carrying on
there to be paid as if the trade were
conducted at whampoa whampoa or huangpu
was the port of Canton an indemnity to
the British government of six million
dollars 1 million payable at once in the
remainder in equal annual installments
ending in eighteen forty six point three
direct official intercourse between the
countries upon equal footing point for
the trade of the port of Canton to be
open within 10 days after the chinese
new year and to be carried on at whampoa
until further arrangements could be
worked out at the new settlement the
British traders couldn't have been
happier but on january 23rd 1841 the
Canton Free Press ran a piece that gave
the general attitude of the merchant
community as far as Hong Kong was
concerned it said we consider that for
an independent British settlement no
situation can possibly be more favorably
chosen than that of Hong Kong the island
itself is of little extent but it forms
with the neighboring lands one of the
finest ports existing Hong Kong would we
doubt not in a very short time
become a place of very considerable
trade were its possession by the British
not clogged with the condition that the
same duties at whampoa are to be paid
there which in our estimation destroys
at once all the benefits that might be
expected to trade there so you say there
was mixed reactions to this tron beats
hall yet let's talk a moment about the
guy who negotiated the convention of
tron be on behalf of the emperor who by
the way never signed it this man's name
was qi shun who was he well when lyndz's
shoe went down and burned all the opium
down in holmen near canton it had some
unintended blowback namely a huge hit to
the Ching Imperial Treasury so Linda she
had to take the heat for that and he
ended up being exiled all the way out to
Shin Jang he was rehabilitated a few
years later in him today of course he's
immortalized as an official of great
virtue and courage and as far as the
Chinese from history stood up to the
west he is one of their poster boys so
when he got exiled shi Shan became his
successor as governor-general of
guangdong and guangxi he too got into a
spot of trouble when he negotiated this
convention of trying to be like linda
shoe he took some heat from the Emperor
but Leo later on he was also
rehabilitated and then in 1854 he died
on the battlefield fighting the Taiping
rebels the history books were also
referred to see sean as ki shaan que es
haan now I'm gonna leave everyone
hanging and stick the bookmark in right
here we all know this convention of
trendy was not signed and was thoroughly
dist on both sides qi shun never signed
it but the fact that he was cornered
like he was you know in the eyes of the
Ching imperial court you know made them
look bad sochi shawn had been hauled
back to beijing and chains and then a
new guy was sent down to deal with this
problem and what happens next well we'll
look at that next time in part 3 will
continue on with the eve
that led up to the Treaty of nanjing and
all the exciting stuff that happened
next should be a barn burner so make
sure to tune in that's all I got for
this time I hope you enjoyed that as Sir
Bob Peck it always says this is laszlo
Montgomery signing off from yes can't on
the scene of the crime I'm actually here
on some secret China history podcast
business I'll be in Guangzhou for the
next few days and then off to ningbo for
some company function and then I have
some speaking engagement in a little
historical sightseeing and hangzhou
followed by a few days of well-deserved
R&R and Shanghai I'm back in LA I
november fourth and i hope to start on
part three of this hong kong history
series thanks to listener craig who
filled me in on a couple inaccuracies
from last week's episode the Cretaceous
period i mentioned last time actually
ran between 145 and a half to 65 and a
half million years ago not 50 to 80
million years ago like I said
erroneously also regarding the last ice
age this last ice age wasn't the one
that was responsible for carving out
that Hong Kong landscape the glaciers
didn't make it as far south as Hong Kong
during this particular period so thanks
Craig and everyone else who from time to
time let me know when something isn't
quite right take care everyone wherever
you are in this world of ours this is
laws lo Montgomery signing off from the
18th floor of the Guangzhou Marriott and
beautiful 10 huh and wishing and hoping
you'll join me next week for another
exciting episode at the China history
podcast and when I say exciting I mean
at this time take care all